In 2016, I had $1,000 to my name,
sleeping on a gym floor. Nine years
later, I broke the Guinness World Record
for the fastest selling non-fiction book
and generate over $16 million in sales
in a weekend. In this video, I'm going
to show you how I'd build a business if
I started all over. So, first, either
sell extremely expensive stuff to a
select few or sell something super cheap
to everyone. The middle is where people
die. So fundamentally all businesses
have the cost of getting customers and
what you make from those customers as
the core economic arbitrage that makes a
business a business. You have a more
efficient way of taking resources and
allocating them to get superior
throughput on the other side. That's
literally what a business is. Why did I
start with sell really expensive stuff
or sell really cheap stuff? Let's dive
in. So having worked with thousands of
businesses now, I can tell you that it
is significantly easier when you're
starting to sell extremely expensive to
a select few. And the reason for that is
that you have to make enough money to be
able to serve the masses. So if you look
at Tesla as a great case study for this,
Tesla started with a $250,000 Roadster,
clearly selling to a select few, and it
was like a beta test car. So like it
definitely wasn't like completely street
ready, all this stuff. But from the the
few that they were able to make, they
were able to get enough money or enough
proof of concept to then eventually get
to making the S, right? And then after
making the S for a few years, then they
were able to work their way down and
make the Model 3. And so the idea is
that you start high and then you can
work your way down. And so despite what
most people believe, one of the simplest
ways to create an expensive offer is to
sell your time one-on-one, even if it's
unscalable. Now, I'll give you a
personal story and then then I'm going
to sell you on why I think this is
actually useful. When I started my
personal training business, which is a
gym on Huntington Beach, I had a client
who wanted personal training. Now, my
gym wasn't a personal training gym. It
was a large group training and
semi-private training gym. I did all
group. there wasn't any oneonone, but
this one guy got referred to me because
he had some like specific mobility
things and like whatever he liked me and
so he he ended up doing personal
training with me. Now this guy would do
5 days a week of 90minute training
sessions which is huge for a personal
trainer, right? So I'm making I think I
was I think I was charging 125 an hour
or something. So I was getting almost
like 180 a day for that whole period. So
I just remember that I got something in
the like $45,000 a month in cash. He
paid me in cash. It was amazing. Um that
I would get per month from this one
client. And the thing is is that me
having that one-on-one time gave me the
cash flow that I needed nothing from the
business so I could just keep
reinvesting the business's money to
growing it faster. And so a lot of
people have this fear around like, oh,
it's not scalable. It's like it doesn't
have to be scalable. Like when I speak
to business owners, they have a lot of
limiting beliefs around charging a lot
of money or selling their time. And so I
want to drive this point home and give
you a lot of reasons to show why it is
superior, especially when you're
starting out to sell your time
one-on-one even if it is unscalable. So
let me kind of sell you on this. So
number one is that you will learn more
from fewer highv value clients. All
right? And if you're around those higher
value clients, you will work with better
people and it will shift your belief set
about who really is in the market.
Right? Like if you've ever struggled to
sell a $50 membership as someone who
has, it's insane when all of a sudden
someone's like, "Here's 15 grand."
You're like, "What just happened? 15
grand? That's $3,50 sales that I'd have
to make in order to get 15 grand."
That's how absurd that is. But when that
happens again and again, it shifts how
you see money and what services you
think about creating. The next one that
people get hung up on is like, "Well, I
don't want to sell my time because uh
selling your time is what poor people
do." Let me learn you some stuff. All
right, which is every single person on
planet Earth earns money per hour. They
just don't necessarily denote it per
hour, but all you have to do is take
what you made last year, divided by
2,000, and guess what? Voila, you have
your hourly rate, which means you worked
40 hours a week, assuming you work 40.
And so even if you work project-wise,
you spent a certain amount of time on
that project and you were remunerated.
Little fancy word, you got paid based on
that work. And so even something like an
investment where people like, well, you
know, investors don't trade their time
for money. Of course they do because you
think, oh, Warren Buffett bought this
company. He just wrote a check and then
that was it. He was done. But what we're
not taking into consideration is the
amount of analysis that he does on macro
markets, the amount of research that
he's doing on a regular basis, the
thousand other deals that he did all the
due diligence on then to say no to only
decide to do this one deal. So when you
take all of that work in aggregate, for
sure he's working. Now, after he makes
the investment, assuming he has no
effort inside of it, which isn't always
true, um, but assuming he had none, then
at that point he would get increasingly
larger returns, but still on a fixed
amount of time that he put in. So, the
proof point is you live in time and you
earn money in time, which means everyone
has an hourly rate. And so, the idea
here is that as long as the thing that
you sell your hourly rate for is more
than you currently own, you will make
more. Next point, when you were doing
one-on-one, especially in the beginning,
you have significantly more flexibility
in delivery. That means because it's
oneonone, you can change things on the
fly. And also, when you have fewer
clients, you can make these kind of
quick iterations. So, this kind of
relates back to the first point of like
you learn a lot faster when you can just
have these tiny little pivots. You don't
have to change these systems. You don't
have to retrain staff. You don't have to
look, you don't have to recode, you
don't have to have the scalable solution
fixed perfectly. It's a great way to
beta test ideas. The next one is that
because you can still cap the time that
you choose to spend with clients, you
can still make sure that you're
allocating as much time as you need to
to do everything else. And one of the
big lessons that I've learned in terms
of making more money is that when you
have demand, cut supply. And so when you
cut supply, what does that do? Why is
why is the acquisition.com logo two
concepts? Leverage, which is a
fullcrumb, and then a supply demand
curve. Because those are, in my opinion,
the two most powerful concepts in
business. And so when you have supply
and demand at work, which we do, the
reason 101 is so powerful is because the
supply is so is so contracted, so fixed,
it's so small. And so it forces, as long
as you don't have limiting beliefs,
which is why I'm trying to make this for
you, it forces you to raise your price.
And so the next one, and this is
controversial, you make the money.
Nobody else does. If you trade your time
for the money, you have a 100% margin.
It's fantastic. Now, some people are
like, well, hey, well, my hourly rate,
it's not, though. You're awake. Your
hourly rate is the food that kept you
alive. That is your hourly rate. Beyond
that, the rest of it goes in your
pocket. And so what I think what people
lack uh consideration of is like every
business can have five one-on-one
clients. Now, when you're like, how
would I do this in a in a lawn care
business? Well, it's just who's going to
be your account rep? You can say some
people get your cell phone and some
people get the account rep's phone.
Who's going to lead the you know, like
who's going to actually design the whole
garden? Is it just one of my guys or is
it going to be me? There's always an
opportunity to make yourself the super
premium version of whatever it is that
you have. Now, here's a fun one. This is
I want to I want to break this loop
because I know the next one that comes
up, which is it's still just not worth
my time, bro. It is worth your time if I
give you a trillion dollars. And so, the
idea here is not is it worth my time,
it's you have to fix the price so that
it is worth your time. Not you would
begrudgingly do it or think to yourself,
well, no one would ever buy that or no
one would ever spend that money or I
think someone would be crazy. Fine, let
them be crazy. Let people live a little
bit. Let them be wild. Let them be a
little spicy. If they want to pay you
more money, you should give them the
opportunity to do so. That's the point
here. Now, what else happens when you
have a super high ticket unscalable
premium one-on-one experience? You lift
your entire brand because if you charge
$10,000 an hour, something absurd, it
doesn't matter. And the thing that you
have is $100, you can then have a very
natural narrative of, listen, a lot of
people can't afford to work with me
one-on-one, and that's totally cool.
I've taken the lessons I have here and I
put them in a scalable format for
everyone. It literally increases the
perceived value. Not just from the
anchor effect, but from the narrative,
the association, the branding that
occurs as a result. Because even if you
charge that and no one ever buys it,
they still assume because that is the
narrative and that's what you put in
front of them. That that big price tag,
the value associated with it still gets
transferred to a degree to the lesser
thing that you have that might be
scalable. Every business can do this.
Like, this is the action step before we
get into like tactics on like how we can
make something be perceived as more
valuable. The action step is this. Just
have the price listed wherever you sell.
And if you don't list it anywhere, say
the price when you offer. And here's the
thing that people mess up about this.
You must confront the high price. You
have to confront it. If you just say
like, "Oh, yeah. Working one means like
$10,000." But anyway, what most people
want to do is no. In order for an anchor
to work, you have to allow the prospect
to make a full consideration of the
decision, which means you have to say,
"Hey, would you like to work with me
oneon-one? It's 10 grand an hour."
Right? And that's, I think, the highest
likelihood thing that I can do to help
you get to where you want to go. Now,
the thing is is at that point, what do
we do? We shut up. We let them talk.
Why? Because talking might result in
them saying yes. And if they say yes,
you get money. And that's amazing,
right? And so, we're at this point right
now. If they then bulk, you say, "Don't
worry. I'm going to pull out a couple of
the components of this and give you this
thing that has 90% of the elements of
this first thing, but it's significantly
more scalable. How's that work for you?
They're like, "Oh my god, thanks so
much. This sounds amazing. This is
exactly what I need." And they buy. But
the thing is is even if and let me do
the math for you because this is
important. Let's say you have a $100
thing and you have a $1,000 thing. And
let's say of the 100 people, 10 of the
hundred are buying the really expensive
thing. So 90% of people buy the $100
thing. What does that do to your
business? Guess what it does? It doubles
the revenue of your business. And not
only that, all of that incremental
revenue, the stuff that came from those
top 10 people, is 100% margin. So let's
say that on your 100, you make 40%
margin. So you're actually making 40
bucks on those 90 people. So you're
making $3,600 in profit off of 90 of
your 100 buyers. Now, of the other 10,
you make 10 * a,000, so you make
$10,000. So you actually make three
times the profit on your expensive
thing. and one times the profit on your
cheaper thing. So threearters of what
you make comes from this thing. That's
why people miss it is they don't get the
math behind it. You have the expensive
thing because even in tiny tiny volumes,
lots of zeros still add up. And so if
you're getting started, I would strongly
recommend if even if you have a scalable
thing, even if you're on school, you
have a community, you charge 100 bucks a
month, whatever it is, have something
that's $1,000 a month. Have something
that's $10,000 one time. Have it up
there. just make it available. And so
I'm going to give you three different
frames to working through this. The
frame number one is what if we charged
10x or 100x more than your current
thing? What would you include? Just go
crazy with it. Just think if instead of
$1,000, if someone gave me $100,000,
what would I do? Just write down
everything you would do. And then look
at the cost of doing all those things.
What you'd be amazed by is many of the
things that you have these ideas for
don't actually cost that much. And so
cross out the ones that have hard costs
and then look at what's left and then
say,"Well, I think I could do that." And
then we ask the question, would you be
okay doing that for a,000 or $10,000?
You might say like, "Well, yeah, for 10
grand I would do that." Make it
available. The second way to think about
this is if I had to make a service or a
product that was only grown off of word
of mouth alone and all you have is this
one customer in front of you. And the
only way that you will be able to get
more customers is if you get that
customer to tell their friends about
your stuff. What would that customer's
experience, what would the service, what
would the components of the offer look
like if that was the requirement? Write
down all of that stuff. And if you're
willing to do that for a higher price,
present it. An amount greater than zero
will say yes. And I'll give you a third
frame. This is different than the other
two, but I think that still very
valuable when you're thinking through
how do I make something um well more
valuable. If we had to take everything
out of it that is unscalable, but we
have to make it worth 10 times as much.
Now, how do we do it? So this gives you
three different intellectual attack
vectors to think through the value
creation for making your more expensive
101 unscalable thing that in many times
will make you more money especially in
the beginning than your less expensive
thing. And the other part of this is
that it's it makes for great marketing
one because you can say this one of my
clients, one of my private clients, one
of my my individual clients. And what
that does is people like, "Oh, this guy
must be a little bit, you know, has more
authority." Right? On top of that, when
you share the learnings from those quote
private clients, it gives you marketing
material to actually talk about, right?
And where do you think your best case
studies are going to come from? There.
And so, you're going to get amazing case
studies. You're going to have amazing
marketing materials in terms of the
learnings and lessons that you're going
to have. And then one of the things that
I personally prefer is that these people
are way cooler and they will be people
that you actually end up being friends
with that you like. and they're the ones
who actually shift your worldview
because you actually will spend more
time with these people than all of these
people and that will shift you in the
correct direction. Now, let's
deconstruct value in a tactical way so
that we can take that the three frames
that I just gave and do even more with
it. Here are the two steps, very
straightforward. Pick the right avatar.
Do not try to make your unscalable
expensive thing and then think about the
person who is currently buying your
thing for $100 and think what would this
$100 person uh be willing to spend
$1,000 for. Do not think that. Likely
the person that's going to spend the
$1,000 is a different person. So you
have to think about that person, not the
person underneath. Next, once you have
this avatar, they have the money, they
feel the pain, they're easy to reach,
right? Then we have to think, how can we
describe their pain more accurately than
they can describe it themselves? And so
the big hack, and this is also new with
some of the AI stuff that's out there,
is go into the books that people are
buying in your niche and then extract
the reviews and then get the quotes that
are specific to their pain. And so one
of the really interesting things about
copy is that if you can articulate
someone's problem better than they can,
they will inherently believe that you
can solve it. So this is what we're
talking about the dream outcome. It's
like make sure we're talking about the
right avatar about what they really want
in the [music] way that resonates with
them specifically because pain and
persuasion only exist in the specific,
never the vague. And if you do this
successfully, their pain and your
description of their pain can be a
better motivator of persuasion and
action than a greater promise. So, how
do we then reverse engineer what someone
actually wants? They don't really want
your time. They want to buy an outcome.
Now, why is oneonone a valuable vehicle?
Because the perceived likelihood of
achievement when you do something
one-on-one in an unskillable way
actually goes through the roof. So, if I
had a meal plan that I gave you as a PDF
or I said, "I will talk to you oneonone
every day." the outcome is still I want
to lose weight, but the likelihood that
they're going to get there is going to
be significantly higher. The likelihood,
the ease, how easy it is for them is
going to go up. And all of these
components play with one another. So
that's the outcome side. Underneath of
that, we have perceived like of
achievement, which I touched on briefly
within the vehicle of oneonone. But
within this case, your reputation over
time acts as almost an implied
guarantee. and the nature of the
delivery also has some level of
implication that they're going to get
the completeness of you. And so as long
as they believe you are competent,
number one, and two, have strong
intention to help, the likelihood that
they believe that giving you money will
help them get what they want goes really
high. And so that's why I like 101.
That's why I like unscalable. And to be
clear, just cap it. It doesn't mean you
have to do it all the time because that
will get in your way long term, but in
the short term, it can it can allow you
to live on this and then cash flow all
the growth. And so this is me giving you
kind of like the the bootstrap
strategies to growing a big business is
like be willing to take 5 10% of your
time, charge 10 times more and make
enough income from that that you can
take all the other money and go
aggressive, go on the offense with it.
So third one is speed. Now if I had to
pick one thing that I could do to
maximize persuasion, it is speed or the
inverse latency. How do I decrease
latency? How do I increase speed so I
can make sure the outcome happens as
fast as possible? because latency beats
magnitude 7 days a week and twice
[music] on Sunday. The reason that this
is important is that it will motivate
someone's action to buy more than just
about anything else. So, you're not
going to sell someone who's wealthy on
how much money you're going to save
them. You'll sell someone who's wealthy
based on how much time you're going to
save them even more. Because money has
an implicit value. Their time is the one
that over time will become significantly
more value than the money. One of the
things that anyone can do to sell that
expensive thing is just take whatever
the delivery time you currently have is
and cut it in half. Cut it in 2/3. And
if you have a 101 service or a higher
tier service, that should add a zero or
more. You can just say, "You will always
have priority. You will always be first
in line. When I have a new thing, you'll
be the first one to see it. Whenever
there's an emergency, you'll be the
first to respond. I'll pull someone off
a job to come to your house." All of
these things are about speed. those
things like think about the vectors of
value. The higher the number, the more
done for you, the more turnkey someone
expects something to be. This is how you
reverse engineer ease. You go through
the customer experience and you take a
note every time you have to do
something. Now, you might find out that
in order for someone to get the outcome
that you want, they might have to take
10,000 actions. And so then what we do
is we systematically go and reverse and
delete friction point by friction point
actions that they need to take. And so
this is the process of making an
exceptional product. Now it might cost
you more money to make this product
which is why you charge more money for
it. So if you have of course there's
technology that can automate some of
this but for many services that exist in
the real world which 70% of people or
80% of people in the US at least are
service based businesses then you're
going to spend some more money. Now
here's the magic of this. Well some of
my business relies on other vendors or
other parties. Guess what happens when
you charge 10 times as much? You can pay
them more to prioritize your customers.
And so this allows you to make your own
priority ring on top of that. That
allows you to consistently out compete
competition because you pay your
vendors, you pay your partners better
than anyone else does because you have
this service tier. And so the TLDDR big
picture is that no matter what, no
matter how many customers you have, if
you simply make a 10 times more
expensive offer, you will have a
percentage likelihood that is greater
than zero that someone will buy it. And
when that happens, you will be
reinforced for doing so. And I think you
will actually see how powerful adding
one, sometimes two zeros to your price
tag really is. Thank you for coming to
my TED talk.